 National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) | Bureau of Justice Assistance Skip to main content An official website of the United States government, Department of Justice. Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Menu National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) Justice Information Sharing gonin / shutterstock.com ( see reuse policy ). MENU Justice Information Sharing Home Global Justice Global Information Sharing Toolkit National Initiatives Privacy and Civil Liberties Policy and Implementation JUMP TO National Initiatives Resources Fusion Centers and Intelligence Sharing Global Reference Architecture National Information Exchange Model Global Justice XML (Archive) Federated Identity and Privilege Management Description NIEM, the National Information Exchange Model, is a partnership of the U.S. Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of Health and Human Services. It is designed to develop, disseminate and support enterprise-wide information exchange standards and processes that can enable jurisdictions to effectively share critical information in emergency situations, as well as support the day-to-day operations of agencies throughout the nation. NIEM enables information sharing, focusing on information exchanged among organizations as part of their current or intended business practices. The NIEM exchange development methodology results in a common semantic understanding among participating organizations and data formatted in a semantically consistent manner. NIEM will standardize content (actual data exchange standards), provide tools, and managed processes. NIEM builds on the demonstrated success of the Global Justice XML Data Model. Stakeholders from relevant communities work together to define critical exchanges, leveraging the successful work of the GJXDM, and further enhancing the capabilities of the NIEM model by developing Information Exchange Package Documentation (IEPD). You can search the latest IEPDs through the NISS IEPD and Justice Standards Clearinghouse , also accessible from the Implementation Assistance section. For more information about NIEM and the associated history, background, technical implementation, and training, visit the NIEM website . Site Tools FAQ Document Library News Archive Podcasts Help Contact Us 