 TAK.gov Skip to main content TAK INTRO Command the Cognitive High Ground with TAK Gain intellectual overmatch with TAK - the advanced geospatial platform built to give your team a decisive edge in complex operational environments. TAK delivers real-time data sharing, intuitive visualizations, and integrated planning and targeting tools, empowering operators to outthink, outmaneuver, and outpace any adversary. Get mission-ready faster, make smarter decisions under pressure, and act with speed and precision. With TAK at the core of your operations, you achieve superior situational understanding when it matters most. TAK INTRO Product Owners: TAK Mobile and Desktop Apps iOS Supported on iOS 16.0 or later. iTAK Android Supported on Android 5 or later. ATAK Windows Supported on Windows 10/11 64-bit. WinTAK Linux Supported on Ubuntu 18.04, Fedora 26, Debian 10, RHEL/CentOS 8 TAKX VR Supported on most VR Headsets VR-TAK ATAK ( source code ) TAK Server ( source code ) VR-TAK ( source code ) Launching your own TAK Server? Install or upgrade TAK Server for your organization in minutes TAK Announcements Pacific Command Visits 1st SFG(A) https://www.dvidshub.net/image/9901478/pacific-command-visits-1st-sfga August 26, 2026 — A U.S. Soldier assigned to 5th Security Force Assistance Brigade, explains the use of the Android Tactical Assault Kit (ATAK) in recent exercises to the Senior Enlisted Advisor of Pacific Command, United States Marine Corps Sgt. Major Eric Cook, right, at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington, Aug. 28, 2026. This visit highlights the cooperation between 1st Special Forces Group (Airborne) and 5th SFAB who share a role in strengthening U.S. Army presence in the Pacific theater. 1st SFG(A) maintains highly lethal, rapidly deployable forces to execute the full spectrum of special operations alongside allies, partners, and the joint force as the preferred partner and premier special operations entity in the U.S. Pacific Command area of responsibility. (U.S. Army photo by Cpl Micah Wilson). More Info JRTC 26-10 JFE https://www.dvidshub.net/image/9935865/jrtc-26-10-jfe August 26, 2026 — A Paratrooper assigned to 2nd Mobile Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division assesses coordinates with an Android Tactical Assault Kit (ATAK) during a Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC) rotation at Fort Polk, Louisiana. Paratroopers are tasked with attacking and defending themselves from enemy forces throughout the duration of JRTC in order to complete the mission at hand. (U.S. Army photo by Spc. Sebastian Johnston) More Info Han Kuang focuses on battlefield responsiveness https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/2026/08/13/2003862417 August 13, 2026 — The Han Kuang Exercise yesterday tested the ability of units to repair damaged vehicles, redeploy forces and adapt to changing battlefield conditions without waiting for orders as the annual drills entered their final day. More Info Browse All TAK News 2026 TAK Offsite This hybrid event, hosted by the TAK Configuration Steering Board (CSB), consists of briefs and demos from the TAK Community across program offices, services, federal agencies, labs, and users. TAK 5.6 Feature Release Explore the Latest in TAK 5.6: A Live Discussion on New Features 2025 TAK Offsite This hybrid event, hosted by the TAK Configuration Steering Board (CSB), consists of briefs and demos from the TAK Community across program offices, services, federal agencies, labs, and users. TAK 5.5 Feature Release Explore the Latest in TAK 5.5: A Live Discussion on New Features TAK 5.4 Feature Release Explore the Latest in TAK 5.4: A Live Discussion on New Features Operational Success Starts with TAK Complete Situational Awareness Maps and situational awareness (SA) are critical to coordinated tasks in many contexts, including kinetic military action, law enforcement, civil protection, and disaster relief. TAK has the ability to display a wide variety of map data, either stored or downloaded in real-time. TAK is the USG's premier tool for shared SA data and has the largest selection of features designed to facilitate real-time coordination between team members through the use of mission specific plugins. Pre-Mission Planning In addition to the standard mission execution planning tools, mission specific capabilities give a user more insight into certain aspects of their assigned tasks. Navigation tools, including viewshed analysis, help users select and traverse a pre-planned route buy displaying the elevation profile of the route along with speed, distance, and bearing to the next waypoint. Pre-mission planning is essential to enabling safe, effective, and rapid deployment of resources. TAK enables effective planning by providing a common understanding of exposure and vulnerabilities based on real time updates of any rapidly developing environment. Streamlined Deployment Points, routes, drawing objects, and files can be shared through TAK user defined groups, teams or simply broadcasted. While most data sharing clients require a server, TAK’s CoT & chat sharing features can operate in a server-less environment amongst nodes operating on the same network. TAK Server can be introduced to extend client connectivity across networks or federated for persistent command and control. From highest commander to the ground forces and attached air & sea assets, deploying with the TAK Common Operational Picture ensures safe, dynamic, and effective mission execution. Find Your TAK Solution Military Law Enforcement Fire, Emergency Management & First Responders Commercial Recreation See TAK in Action JRTC 26-10 JFE → https://www.dvidshub.net/image/9935865/jrtc-26-10-jfe August 26, 2026 — A Paratrooper assigned to 2nd Mobile Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division assesses coordinates with an Android Tactical Assault Kit (ATAK) during a Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC) rotation at Fort Polk, Louisiana. Paratroopers are tasked with attacking and defending themselves from enemy forces throughout the duration of JRTC in order to complete the mission at hand. (U.S. Army photo by Spc. Sebastian Johnston) Pacific Command Visits 1st SFG(A) → https://www.dvidshub.net/image/9901478/pacific-command-visits-1st-sfga August 26, 2026 — A U.S. Soldier assigned to 5th Security Force Assistance Brigade, explains the use of the Android Tactical Assault Kit (ATAK) in recent exercises to the Senior Enlisted Advisor of Pacific Command, United States Marine Corps Sgt. Major Eric Cook, right, at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington, Aug. 28, 2026. This visit highlights the cooperation between 1st Special Forces Group (Airborne) and 5th SFAB who share a role in strengthening U.S. Army presence in the Pacific theater. 1st SFG(A) maintains highly lethal, rapidly deployable forces to execute the full spectrum of special operations alongside allies, partners, and the joint force as the preferred partner and premier special operations entity in the U.S. Pacific Command area of responsibility. (U.S. Army photo by Cpl Micah Wilson). DroneShield launches RfRecon portable RF intelligence system → https://www.militaryaerospace.com/uncrewed/news/55397634/droneshield-launches-rfrecon-portable-rf-intelligence-system August 13, 2026 — DroneShield's RfRecon combines RF detection, direction finding, and signal analysis in a portable system for counter-UAS and electronic warfare missions. Browse All TAK News 